<!-- from official APA PDF template -->

::: title
Guided Imagery and Progressive Muscle Relaxation in Group Psychotherapy
:::

::: subtitle
Hannah K. Greenbaum<br>
Department of Psychology, The George Washington University<br>
PSYC 3170: Clinical Psychology<br>
Dr. Tia M. Benedetto<br>
October 1, 2019
:::

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

## Guided Imagery and Progressive Muscle Relaxation in Group Psychotherapy

A majority of Americans experience stress in their daily lives (American
Psychological Association, 2017). Thus, an important goal of psychological
research is to evaluate techniques that promote stress reduction and relaxation.
Two techniques that have been associated with reduced stress and increased
relaxation in psychotherapy contexts are guided imagery and progressive muscle
relaxation (McGuigan & Lehrer, 2007). Guided imagery aids individuals in
connecting their internal and external experiences, allowing them, for example,
to feel calmer externally because they practice thinking about calming imagery.
Progressive muscle relaxation involves diaphragmatic breathing and the tensing
and releasing of 16 major muscle groups; together these behaviors lead
individuals to a more relaxed state (Jacobson, 1938; Trakhtenberg, 2008). Guided
imagery and progressive muscle relaxation are both cognitive behavioral
techniques (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005) in which individuals focus on the relationship
among thoughts, emotions, and behaviors (White, 2000).

Group psychotherapy effectively promotes positive treatment outcomes in patients
in a cost-effective way. Its efficacy is in part attributable to variables
unique to the group experience of therapy as compared with individual
psychotherapy (Bottomley, 1996; Yalom & Leszcz, 2005). That is, the group format
helps participants feel accepted and better understand their common struggles;
at the same time, interactions with group members provide social support and
models of positive behavior (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005). Thus, it is useful to
examine how stress reduction and relaxation can be enhanced in a group context.

The purpose of this literature review is to examine the research base on guided
imagery and progressive muscle relaxation in group psychotherapy contexts. I
provide overviews of both guided imagery and progressive muscle relaxation,
including theoretical foundations and historical context. Then I examine guided
imagery and progressive muscle relaxation as used on their own as well as in
combination as part of group psychotherapy (see Baider et al., 1994, for more).
Throughout the review, I highlight themes in the research. Finally, I end by
pointing out limitations in the existing literature and exploring potential
directions for future research.

## Guided Imagery

### Features of Guided Imagery

Guided imagery involves a person visualizing a mental image and engaging each
sense (e.g., sight, smell, touch) in the process. Guided imagery was first
examined in a psychological context in the 1960s, when the behavior theorist
Joseph Wolpe helped pioneer the use of relaxation techniques such as aversive
imagery, exposure, and imaginal flooding in behavior therapy (Achterberg, 1985;
Utay & Miller, 2006). Patients learn to relax their bodies in the presence of
stimuli that previously distressed them, to the point where further exposure to
the stimuli no longer provokes a negative response (Achterberg, 1985).

Contemporary research supports the efficacy of guided imagery interventions for
treating medical, psychiatric, and psychological disorders (Utay & Miller,
2006). Guided imagery is typically used to pursue treatment goals such as
improved relaxation, sports achievement, and pain reduction. Guided imagery
techniques are often paired with breathing techniques and other forms of
relaxation, such as mindfulness (see Freebird Meditations, 2012). The evidence
is sufficient to call guided imagery an effective, evidence-based treatment for
a variety of stress-related psychological concerns (Utay & Miller, 2006).

### Guided Imagery in Group Psychotherapy

Guided imagery exercises improve treatment outcomes and prognosis in group
psychotherapy contexts (Skovholt & Thoen, 1987). Lange (1982) underscored two
such benefits by showing (a) the role of the group psychotherapy leader in
facilitating reflection on the guided imagery experience, including difficulties
and stuck points, and (b) the benefits achieved by social comparison of guided
imagery experiences between group members. Teaching techniques and reflecting on
the group process are unique components of guided imagery received in a group
context (Yalom & Leszcz, 2005).

Empirical research focused on guided imagery interventions supports the efficacy
of the technique with a variety of populations within hospital settings, with
positive outcomes for individuals diagnosed with depression, anxiety, and eating
disorders (Utay & Miller, 2006). Guided imagery and relaxation techniques have
even been found to “reduce distress and allow the immune system to function more
effectively” (Trakhtenberg, 2008, p. 850). For example, Holden-Lund (1988)
examined effects of a guided imagery intervention on surgical stress and wound
healing in a group of 24 patients. Patients listened to guided imagery
recordings and reported reduced state anxiety, lower cortisol levels following
surgery, and less irritation in wound healing compared with a control group.
Holden-Lund concluded that the guided imagery recordings contributed to improved
surgical recovery. It would be interesting to see how the results might differ
if guided imagery was practiced continually in a group context.

Guided imagery has also been shown to reduce stress, length of hospital stay,
and symptoms related to medical and psychological conditions (Scherwitz et al.,
2005). For example, Ball et al. (2003) conducted guided imagery in a group
psychotherapy format with 11 children (ages 5–18) experiencing recurrent
abdominal pain. Children in the treatment group (n = 5) participated in four
weekly group psychotherapy sessions where guided imagery techniques were
implemented. Data collected via pain diaries and parent and child psychological
surveys showed that patients reported a 67% decrease in pain. Despite a small
sample size, which contributed to low statistical power, the researchers
concluded that guided imagery in a group psychotherapy format was effective in
reducing pediatric recurrent abdominal pain.

However, in the majority of guided imagery studies, researchers have not
evaluated the technique in the context of traditional group psychotherapy.
Rather, in these studies participants usually met once in a group to learn
guided imagery and then practiced guided imagery individually on their own (see
Menzies et al., 2014, for more). Thus, it is unknown whether guided imagery
would have different effects if implemented on an ongoing basis in group
psychotherapy.

## References

::: references
Achterberg, J. (1985). Imagery in healing. Shambhala Publications.

American Psychological Association. (2017). Stress in America: The state of our
nation. https://www.apa.org/news/press/releases/stress/2017/state-nation.pdf

Baider, L., Uziely, B., & Kaplan De-Nour, A. (1994). Progressive muscle
relaxation and guided imagery in cancer patients. General Hospital Psychiatry,
16(5), 340–347. https://doi.org/10.1016/0163-8343(94)90021-3

Ball, T. M., Shapiro, D. E., Monheim, C. J., & Weydert, J. A. (2003). A pilot
study of the use of guided imagery for the treatment of recurrent abdominal pain
in children. Clinical Pediatrics, 42(6), 527–532. https://doi.org/10.1177/000992280304200607

Bernstein, D. A., & Borkovec, T. D. (1973). Progressive relaxation training: A
manual for the helping professions. Research Press.
:::
