<!-- from official IEEE word template -->
<!-- TODO: incorporate KaTeX -->

::: title
Paper Title* (use style: paper title)
:::

::: authors
line 1: 1st Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID

line 1: 2nd Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID

line 1: 3rd Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID

line 1: 4th Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID
:::

::: authors
line 1: 5th Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID

line 1: 6th Given Name Surname<br>line 2: dept. name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 3: name of organization (of Affiliation)<br>line 4: City, Country<br>line 5: email address or ORCID
:::

::: content
*Abstract—This electronic document is a “live” template and already defines the
components of your paper [title, text, heads, etc.] in its style sheet.
\*CRITICAL: Do Not Use Symbols, Special Characters, Footnotes, or Math in Paper
Title or Abstract. (Abstract)*

*Keywords—component, formatting, style, styling, insert (key words)*

## I. Introduction (Heading 1)

This template, modified in MS Word 2007 and saved as a “Word 97-2003 Document”
for the PC, provides authors with most of the formatting specifications needed
for preparing electronic versions of their papers. All standard paper components
have b een specified for three reasons: (1) ease of use when formatting
individual papers, (2) automatic compliance to electronic requirements that
facilitate the concurrent or later production of electronic products, and (3)
conformity of style throughout a conference proceedings. Margins, column widths,
line spacing, and type styles are built-in; examples of the type styles are
provided throughout this document and are identified in italic type, within
parentheses, following the example. Some components, such as multi-leveled
equations, graphics, and tables are not prescribed, although the various table
text styles are provided. The formatter will need to create these components,
incorporating the applicable criteria that follow.

## II. Ease of Use

### A. Selecting a Template (Heading 2)

First, confirm that you have the correct template for your paper size. This
template has been tailored for output on the US-letter paper size. If you are
using A4-sized paper, please close this file and download the file
“MSW_A4_format”.

### B. Maintaining the Integrity of the Specifications

The template is used to format your paper and style the text. All margins,
column widths, line spaces, and text fonts are prescribed; please do not alter
them. You may note peculiarities. For example, the head margin in this template
measures proportionately more than is customary. This measurement and others are
deliberate, using specifications that anticipate your paper as one part of the
entire proceedings, and not as an independent document. Please do not revise any
of the current designations.

## III. Prepare Your Paper Before Styling

Before you begin to format your paper, first write and save the content as a
separate text file. Complete all content and organizational editing before
formatting. Please note sections A-D below for more information on proofreading,
spelling and grammar.

Keep your text and graphic files separate until after the text has been
formatted and styled. Do not use hard tabs, and limit use of hard returns to
only one return at the end of a paragraph. Do not add any kind of pagination
anywhere in the paper. Do not number text heads-the template will do that for
you.

### A. Abbreviations and Acronyms

Define abbreviations and acronyms the first time they are used in the text, even
after they have been defined in the abstract. Abbreviations such as IEEE, SI,
MKS, CGS, sc, dc, and rms do not have to be defined. Do not use abbreviations in
the title or heads unless they are unavoidable.

### B. Units

-	Use either SI (MKS) or CGS as primary units. (SI units are encouraged.)
  English units may be used as secondary units (in parentheses). An exception
  would be the use of English units as identifiers in trade, such as “3.5-inch
  disk drive”.
-	Avoid combining SI and CGS units, such as current in amperes and magnetic
  field in oersteds. This often leads to confusion because equations do not
  balance dimensionally. If you must use mixed units, clearly state the units
  for each quantity that you use in an equation.
-	Do not mix complete spellings and abbreviations of units: “Wb/m2” or “webers
  per square meter”, not “webers/m2”.  Spell out units when they appear in text:
  “. . . a few henries”, not “. . . a few H”.
-	Use a zero before decimal points: “0.25”, not “.25”. Use “cm3”, not “cc”.
  (bullet list)

### C. Equations

The equations are an exception to the prescribed specifications of this
template. You will need to determine whether or not your equation should be
typed using either the Times New Roman or the Symbol font (please no other
font). To create multileveled equations, it may be necessary to treat the
equation as a graphic and insert it into the text after your paper is styled.

Number equations consecutively. Equation numbers, within parentheses, are to
position flush right, as in (1), using a right tab stop. To make your equations
more compact, you may use the solidus ( / ), the exp function, or appropriate
exponents. Italicize Roman symbols for quantities and variables, but not Greek
symbols. Use a long dash rather than a hyphen for a minus sign. Punctuate
equations with commas or periods when they are part of a sentence, as in:
:::
